Navigation (#2934)
Codecademy/docs: content/swiftui/concepts/navigation/navigation.md

---
Title: 'Navigation'

> Description: 'It is the ability to navigate to diffrent views from the root view in the app.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Navigation is the ability to navigate to different views from the root view in the app.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'iOS'
  - 'Mobile Development'
Tags:
  - 'SwiftUI'
  - 'SwiftUI ViewModifiers'
  - 'iOS'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-iOS-course'
  - 'path/iOS-path'
---

> **Navigation** is the ability to navigate to diffrent views from the root view in the app. In SwiftUI, `NavigationStack` is used to enable the root view to present views over it, but in iOS 15 and less `NavigationView` was used in the past but it's deprecated since iOS 16 and introduced `NavigationStack`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Navigation** is the ability to navigate to different views from the root view in the app. In SwiftUI, `NavigationStack` is used to enable the root view to present views over it.  In iOS 15 and before, `NavigationView` was used, but it's been deprecated since iOS 16 introduced `NavigationStack`. 
```

> ## NavigationStack
> To be able to navigate to diffrent views from the root view, The view will be warped with `NavigationStack` struct as you see in the example below: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## NavigationStack

To be able to navigate to different views from the root view, the view will be warped with `NavigationStack` struct as in the example below: 
```

```Swift
struct Tap: View {
    var body: some View {
      NavigationStack{
        Text("Hello, World!")
       }
    }
}
```

> This is the first step to do to be able to navigate to diffrent views, this defines the root view of the stack. Then to define the destion or in other words the view you want to navigate to use `NavigationLink`. This defines view when pressed, it navigate to the destion view that was defined: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This is the first step to be able to navigate to different views. This defines the root view of the stack. Then to define the destination use `NavigationLink`. When pressed, it navigates to the destination view that was defined: 
```

```Swift
struct Doc: View { 
var body: some View {
          NavigationStack{
            VStack{
                Text("Hello, World!")
                  NavigationLink {
                      Text("Cairo") // desired view destination
                  } label: {
                      Text("Go to...")
                  }
            }

           }
        }
}
```

> Output:
> ![This is a gif that shows Navigation in action](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/NavigationStack.gif)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This code will output:

![This is a gif that shows Navigation in action](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/NavigationStack.gif)
```

> you can customize the label of the `NavigationLink`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The label of the `NavigationLink` can be customized:
```
We avoid first and second-person pronouns in Docs.

```Swift
struct Doc: View { 
   var body: some View {
          NavigationStack{
            VStack{
                Text("Hello, World!")
                  NavigationLink {
                      Text("Cairo") // desired view destination
                  } label: {
                      Image(systemName: "arrow.right")
                          .foregroundColor(.red)
                          .padding(.vertical)
                      
                  }
            }

           }
        }
}
```

> Output:
> ![This is a gif that shows Navigation with a custom label in action](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/NavigationStack-with-Custom-label.gif)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This code will output:

![This is a gif that shows Navigation with a custom label in action](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/NavigationStack-with-Custom-label.gif)
```

> **Note:** If The app suports iOS 15 or less `NavigationStack` will not be available, so instead of `NavigationStack` use `NavigationView`. In the above examples just replace `NavigationStack` with `NavigationView` and the code will run.

> ## NavigationStack with Lists
> One of the common examples of using `NavigationStack` is with `Lists`, so lets say for Example there is a list of names in the view. The goal we want to achieve is to be able to navigate to another view by pressing the element in the list. This can be achieved by warping the `List` in a `NavigationStack` :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## NavigationStack with Lists

One of the common examples of using `NavigationStack` is with `Lists`. For example, there is a list of names in the view. The goal is to be able to navigate to another view by pressing the element in the list. This can be achieved by wrapping the `List` in a `NavigationStack` :
```

```Swift
struct Doc: View {
    let Names = ["Omar","Adam","Zack"] // this is the list
    var body: some View {
        NavigationStack{
            List(Names,id:\.self){ name in // List iterates throw the Names array, every iteration the element is stored in name.
                NavigationLink {
                    Text(name) // desired view destination
                } label: {
                    Text(name)  
                }
            }
            
        }
    }
}
```

> Output:
> ![This is a gif that shows how to use NavigationStack with Lists](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/NavigationStack-with-List.gif)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This code will output:

![This is a gif that shows how to use NavigationStack with Lists](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/NavigationStack-with-List.gif)
```

Those are just basic examples for `NavigationStack`, there is no limits on how to use it.

> ## NavigationStack modifiers
> There are some basic modifiers to use with `NavigationStack`. The first one is `.navigationTitle`, this is used to be able to declare the title of the view, it looks like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## NavigationStack Modifiers

There are some basic modifiers to use with `NavigationStack`. The first one is `.navigationTitle`. This is used to be able to declare the title of the view. It looks like this:
```

```Swift
struct Doc: View {
    let Names = ["Omar","Adam","Zack"]
    var body: some View {
        NavigationStack{
            List(Names,id:\.self){ name in
                NavigationLink {
                    Text(name) // desired view destination
                } label: {
                    Text(name)
                }
            }
            .navigationTitle("Names")
        }
    }
}
```

> Output:
> ![This picture shows the effect of using NavigationStack with navigationTitle](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/NavigationStack-with-navigationTitle.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This code will output:

![This picture shows the effect of using NavigationStack with navigationTitle](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/NavigationStack-with-navigationTitle.png)
```

> Another important modifier is `.navigationBarBackButtonHidden()`. From it's name this modifier removes the back button that appears when navigating to another view, this modifier is applied to the desired view:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another important modifier is `.navigationBarBackButtonHidden()`. This modifier removes the back button that appears when navigating to another view. This modifier is applied to the desired view:
```

```Swift
struct Doc: View {
    let Names = ["Omar","Adam","Zack"]
    var body: some View {
        NavigationStack{
            List(Names,id:\.self){ name in
                NavigationLink {
                    Text(name) // desired view destination
                     .navigationBarBackButtonHidden()
                } label: {
                    Text(name)
                }
            }
            .navigationTitle("Names")
        }
    }
}
```

> Output: 
> ![This gif shows the effect of using NavigationStack with navigationBarBackButtonHidden](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/NavigationStack-with-navigationBarBackButtonHidden.gif)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This code produces the following output: 

![This gif shows the effect of using NavigationStack with navigationBarBackButtonHidden](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/NavigationStack-with-navigationBarBackButtonHidden.gif)
```

> The modifiers above are just the basic one, to help in designing the app.
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The modifiers above are just two examples out of many.
```

---
Title: 'Navigation'
Description: 'Navigation is the ability to navigate to different views from the root view in the app.'
Subjects:
  - 'iOS'
  - 'Mobile Development'
Tags:
  - 'SwiftUI'
  - 'SwiftUI ViewModifiers'
  - 'iOS'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-iOS-course'
  - 'path/iOS-path'
---

**Navigation** is the ability to navigate to different views from the root view in the app. In SwiftUI, `NavigationStack` is used to enable the root view to present views over it.  In iOS 15 and before, `NavigationView` was used, but it's been deprecated since iOS 16 introduced `NavigationStack`. 

> ## NavigationStack

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## `NavigationStack`
```

> To be able to navigate to different views from the root view, the view will be warped with `NavigationStack` struct as in the example below: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To be able to navigate to different views from the root view, views will be wrapped with a `NavigationStack` `struct` as in the example below: 
```

> ```Swift

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```swift
```

Reviewer 2: These should all be lowercased ^^

struct Tap: View {
    var body: some View {
      NavigationStack{
        Text("Hello, World!")
       }
    }
}
```

> This is the first step to be able to navigate to different views. This defines the root view of the stack. Then to define the destination use `NavigationLink`. When pressed, it navigates to the destination view that was defined: 

Reviewer 2: Be a bit definitive and less directional in language. So rather than "This is the first step" -> "To navigate to different views..."

            }

           }
        }
}
```

This code will output:

![This is a gif that shows Navigation in action](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/NavigationStack.gif)

The label of the `NavigationLink` can be customized:

```Swift
struct Doc: View { 
   var body: some View {
          NavigationStack{
            VStack{
                Text("Hello, World!")
                  NavigationLink {
                      Text("Cairo") // desired view destination
                  } label: {
                      Image(systemName: "arrow.right")
                          .foregroundColor(.red)
                          .padding(.vertical)
                      
                  }
            }

           }
        }
}
```

This code will output:

![This is a gif that shows Navigation with a custom label in action](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/NavigationStack-with-Custom-label.gif)

> **Note:** If The app suports iOS 15 or less `NavigationStack` will not be available, so instead of `NavigationStack` use `NavigationView`. In the above examples just replace `NavigationStack` with `NavigationView` and the code will run.

> ## NavigationStack with Lists

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## `NavigationStack` with Lists
```

Reviewer 2: Style: Wrap in backticks even when in title

            List(Names,id:\.self){ name in
                NavigationLink {
                    Text(name) // desired view destination
                } label: {
                    Text(name)
                }
            }
            .navigationTitle("Names")
        }
    }
}
```

This code will output:

![This picture shows the effect of using NavigationStack with navigationTitle](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/NavigationStack-with-navigationTitle.png)

Another important modifier is `.navigationBarBackButtonHidden()`. This modifier removes the back button that appears when navigating to another view. This modifier is applied to the desired view:

```Swift
struct Doc: View {
    let Names = ["Omar","Adam","Zack"]
    var body: some View {
        NavigationStack{
            List(Names,id:\.self){ name in
                NavigationLink {
                    Text(name) // desired view destination
                     .navigationBarBackButtonHidden()
                } label: {
                    Text(name)
                }
            }
            .navigationTitle("Names")
        }
    }
}
```

This code produces the following output: 

> ![This gif shows the effect of using NavigationStack with navigationBarBackButtonHidden](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/NavigationStack-with-navigationBarBackButtonHidden.gif)

Reviewer 2: For all these gifs, can you crop out the safe areas?

Author: Nop I can't

Reviewer 2: Do you need assistance with this?

Author: yes please I don’t know how to do that, because this gif is generated from the sim. I don’t have the capability to edit them. @yangc95

---
Title: 'Navigation'
Description: 'Navigation is the ability to navigate to different views from the root view in the app.'
Subjects:
  - 'iOS'
  - 'Mobile Development'
Tags:
  - 'SwiftUI'
  - 'SwiftUI ViewModifiers'
  - 'iOS'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-iOS-course'
  - 'path/iOS-path'
---

**Navigation** is the ability to navigate to different views from an app's root view. In SwiftUI, `NavigationStack` is used to enable the root view to present views over it.

> **Note:** In iOS 15 and before, `NavigationView` was used, but it's been deprecated since iOS 16 introduced `NavigationStack` and `NavigationSplitView`.

## `NavigationStack`

To be able to navigate to different views from the root view, views will be wrapped with a `NavigationStack` `struct` as in the example below: 

```swift

> struct MyApp: View {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
@main
struct MyApp: View {
```
